Prototype (#1)
reside-ic/privateer2: README.md

-----

## The idea

> We need a way of syncronising some docker volumes from a machine to some backup server, incrementally, using `rsync`. We previously used [`offen/docker-volume-backup`](https://github.com/offen/docker-volume-backup) to backup volumes in their entirity to another machine as a tar file but the space and time requirements made this hard to use in practice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need a way of synchronising some docker volumes from a machine to some backup server, incrementally, using `rsync`. We previously used [`offen/docker-volume-backup`](https://github.com/offen/docker-volume-backup) to backup volumes in their entirety to another machine as a tar file but the space and time requirements made this hard to use in practice.
```

### The setup

> We assume some number of **server** machines -- these will recieve data, and some number of **client** machines -- these will send data to the server(s).  A client can back any number of volumes to any number of servers, and a server can recieve and serve any unmber of volumes to any number of clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We assume some number of **server** machines -- these will receive data, and some number of **client** machines -- these will send data to the server(s).  A client can back any number of volumes to any number of servers, and a server can receive and serve any number of volumes to any number of clients.
```

> A typical topolgy for us would be that we would have a "production" machine which is backing up to one or more servers, and then some additional set of "staging" machines that recieve data from the servers, but which in practice never send any data.

Reviewer: "structure" could also work, topology is definitely the right word but I wonder how user friendly it sounds 
```suggestion
A typical framework for us would be that we would have a "production" machine which is backing up to one or more servers, and then some additional set of "staging" machines that receive data from the servers, which in practice never send any data.
```

> Because we are going to use ssh for transport, we assume existance of [HashiCorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/) to store secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because we are going to use ssh for transport, we assume existence of [HashiCorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/) to store secrets.
```

### Setup

After writing a configuration, on any machine run

```
privateer2 keygen --all
```

which will generate ssh keypairs for all machines and put them in the vault. This only needs to be done once, but you might need to run it again if

* you add more machines to your system
* you want to rotate keys

Once keys are written to the vault, on each machine run

```
privateer2 configure <name>
```

replacing `<name>` with the name of the machine within either the `servers` or `clients` section of your configuration.  This sets up a special docker volume that will persist ssh keys and configurations so that communication between clients and servers is straightforward and secure.  It also leaves a file `.privateer_identity` at the same location as the configuration file, which is used as the default identity for subsequent commands. Typically this is what you want.

### Manual backup

```
privateer backup <volume>
```

Add `--dry-run` to see the commands to run it yourself

### Restore

Restoration is always manual

```
privateer2 restore <volume> [--server=NAME] [--source=NAME]
```

> where `--server` controls the server you are pulling from (if you have more than one configured) and `--source` controls the original machine that backed the data up (if more than one machine is pushing backups).

Reviewer: An example could also be nice! (cant put the command in triple ticks because suggestion is also in triple ticks)
````suggestion
where `--server` controls the server you are pulling from (useful if you have more than one configured) and `--source` controls the original machine that backed the data up (if more than one machine is pushing backups).

For example, if you are on a "staging" machine, connecting to the "backup" server and want to pull the "user_data" volume that was backed up from "production" machine called  you would type

```
privateer2 restore user_data --server=backup --source=production
```

````

Author: the trick is to use four ticks for the outside block

## What's the problem anyway?

> [Docker volumes](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) are useful for abstracting away some persistant storage  for an application. They're much nicer to use than bind mounts because they don't pollute the host sytem with immovable files (docker containers often running as root or with a uid different to the user running docker).  The docker [docs describe some approaches to backup and restore](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/#back-up-restore-or-migrate-data-volumes) but in practice this ignores many practical issues, especially when the volumes are large or off-site backup is important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Docker volumes](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) are useful for abstracting away some persistent storage for an application. They're much nicer to use than bind mounts because they don't pollute the host system with immovable files (docker containers often running as root or with a uid different to the user running docker).  The docker [docs](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/#back-up-restore-or-migrate-data-volumes) describe some approaches to backup and restore but in practice this ignores many practical issues, especially when the volumes are large or off-site backup is important.
```

> We want to be able to syncronise a volume to another volume on a different machine; our setup looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to be able to synchronise a volume to another volume on a different machine; our setup looks like this:
```

We assume some number of **server** machines -- these will receive data, and some number of **client** machines -- these will send data to the server(s).  A client can back any number of volumes to any number of servers, and a server can receive and serve any number of volumes to any number of clients.

A typical framework for us would be that we would have a "production" machine which is backing up to one or more servers, and then some additional set of "staging" machines that receive data from the servers, which in practice never send any data.

Because we are going to use ssh for transport, we assume existence of [HashiCorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/) to store secrets.

### Configuration

The system is configured via a single `json` document, `privateer.json` which contains information about all the moving parts: servers, clients, volumes and the vault configuration. See [`example/`](example/) for some examples.

We imagine that your configuration will exist in some repo, and that that repo will be checked out on all involved machines. Please add `.privateer_identity` to your `.gitignore` for this repo.

### Setup

After writing a configuration, on any machine run

```

> privateer2 keygen --all

Reviewer 2: Is this going to replace privateer eventually?

Author: yeah, I'll do some sort of merge into that package source

```

which will generate ssh keypairs for all machines and put them in the vault. This only needs to be done once, but you might need to run it again if

* you add more machines to your system
* you want to rotate keys

Once keys are written to the vault, on each machine run

```
privateer2 configure <name>
```

replacing `<name>` with the name of the machine within either the `servers` or `clients` section of your configuration.  This sets up a special docker volume that will persist ssh keys and configurations so that communication between clients and servers is straightforward and secure.  It also leaves a file `.privateer_identity` at the same location as the configuration file, which is used as the default identity for subsequent commands. Typically this is what you want.

### Manual backup

```

> privateer backup <volume>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
privateer2 backup <volume> [--server=NAME]
```

?
